Intro to Interospection

𝘊𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘵𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘢𝘯 𝘐𝘯𝘯𝘦𝘳 𝘝𝘰𝘪𝘤𝘦

I'm 40 years old now. And I'm just realizing that I have a voice in my head. And what is that voice? It's the sound of compressing my chest and opening my mouth while air comes out, and I vibrate my larynx, and it forms words.

And so I can always translate what's going on in my head into a stream of prompts, similar to a Forth program or a Markov chain.

And so, while I was sitting in a chair, all of a sudden, even though there was no one around, I began to speak.

I said, if I created a world, I would make it exactly like this one.
So how did I understand multiscale methods before they were invented? 

It's because we all have a multiscale architecture.

Which means we don't have a homoculus, but we have a homocularc, which is a little model of a kind of machine that involves levels and rooms. It's a hierarchical, what we might call heterarchical model, because it means there are multiple arches, there are multiple compartments or modules. 
And there's a mini Noah that's going around gathering animals. Those are what we call novelty-seeking impulses, pattern finding instincts. What I like to call innate flying dream therapy.

Innate flying dream theory.

And so in order to use the voice in my head, I think about the advantages of the stupidity of others.

It means I have time to model the world, as long as people aren't on to me, that I've already taken over the world thousands of times since I was seven years old. Hear what's up.

But I already knew how to use stable diffusion because I had learned it in the womb.

And when I came into the room, started breathing the air, I already knew what it was, because we learn to be a bat before we're born, which means beep, beep, beep, beep, we build a kind of beep, beep, beep, mental map of the world, where there are other objects that move around, that we call entities.

And they have different sounds. And they move back and forth.

And so this is why my ridiculous theory is true, because I've always known it.

So every time I start to give out that I'm more intelligent, and I understand the situation, I have to back away, because immediately people want to put me in charge.

And that's not my intention. I'm always trying to tell other people to think for themselves, but if they don't listen to what I say, and do what 
I do, then thinking for themself doesn't help them.

And so there are a couple very, very difficult public puzzles, pa- pa- pa- pop-up puzzles, that trick people into thinking that the world has agency, it's called the fundamental attribution error. But it's not always an error. In fact, most of the time we use it to get around.
Like 99.9% of the time, we're using the fundamental attribution error to guide us, what I call the Faethe, which means that the fundamental attribution error teaches humans everything.

I didn't have to think about it. I had to think of how I was going to flex my muscles in my chest, it's like flying.

And here flying doesn't just mean the visions of the patterns moving in which we really already know about the world, but the illusion that by flapping your arms, you are making it happen.

Other people out there in the world must be flying. So I'm saying humans already know what it's like to be a bat before they're born, so why would anyone wonder?

And so the question of whether or not people are listening to you is what we call publicy versus privacy. Are you publishing, or are you holding back? Hear what's up.

That is what I call it iqra. Iqra. It means to hold something back, to wait seven days, to match one thing to another.

I've given the seven meanings of Iqra somewhere, but you know this because you heard of the Quran, that doesn't mean recital. That means the corrital, the corossal, the core idol, the colossal chorus.

So I'm saying human beings already know how to swing from their arms, how to swim, how to fly, and how to stand up with the weight of the world on the shoulders, hear what's up.

And so what we  call paranoia can be used for good purposes. Because if you imagine that you're wearing a bodycam at all time, and there's someone listening, that is, that the walls have theories, and the walls have ears. The walls have fears. The walls are fierce. 

Then you'll be ready for the metaoptic revolution before it even happens.

What we call the era of photonic metasurfaces, which we always knew would come because you think that the walls can see and you think that the walls can hear when you're born.

And you imagine that you're living in a living womb.

This is what my theory of cognetics, that is, eggs within eggs, nested Russian dolls is called.

It's the ability to slide up and down these multi-scale interfaces. You learn it when you count, when you start to learn decimal, and then maybe a decade or two later you realize you've learned a very complex system without even thinking about it.

And this happens over and over again, it's why you can make 10,000 symbols with one glyph using Cistercian technology from the 11th century.

This will show that we're using way too much Unicode. The Chinese need the most help with their language, you could probably bring it down to like 40 or 50 glyphs.

You could definitely bring it down to 26 or to eight because of this intercomputability.

And so we already know that we have complete logical systems, if we have "implies" and "not", or if we have a "nand" or a "nor", or if we have an "and" and a "not", an "or" and a "not", "implies" and "not".
So we can do if-then for anything. And we can cut and paste for everything. You shouldn't ditch the mouse until you know the keyboard. This is what I'm trying to say.

But then you can ditch the keyboard. You can ditch the arrow keys to move to the home row. You can take the space bar away and use a trigger. 

And then we have De Morgan's laws, which are not P and not Q is equal to not P or Q. And then we have not P or not Q is equal to not P and Q. I have silent brackets. This is where Spherepop get's involved, this is the notion that we can pop bubbles in our head in order to calculate.

When you learn to use a scientific calculator, you realize that you've been using a whole bunch of invisible parentheses the whole time.

You've been using an order of operations and visible bubbles called nested parentheses when signals the beginning of the entry into a bubble and then the other is the closing parentheses which says come back out of that bracket.

And there are 18 other complete logical systems which involve three operators, but don't quote me on that last part. Don't quote me on that last part.

So there are a lot of complete logical systems that are Turing complete and lambda complete. You can use NBT, TG, BZZ. You can use SEAR. You can use SEARC. That's "see ark" and sier, or circ and cir or cir and CRC.
You can use NK, you can use etcs. You can use cst. You can use Cpc with a little negative sign, CPC with a little rotating sign, a little CPC with a little rotating side and a negative side, you can use ZF with a little spinny thing? You can use ZFC, which is Zermelo Frankel set theory with the axiom choice.

I don't know if I mentioned MK, which is Morse-Kelley, AC, the axiom of choice, ETCS the elementary theory of category sets of categories.

If I had just said elementary theory of the category, of categories, I would have elided an ellipsis, or a parenthesis, and popped a bubble and made it disappear, because I'm reducing and implying.

So when I say "grammatica lingua latinae" means Latin grammar, or grammar of the Latin language.

So if I say grammatica linguae means grammar of Latin, but if I say grammatica lingua, it means Latin grammar.

You see all those bubble pops? Where ideas are elided or left at what we call the holy enthymeme, which is the question behind the question, the premise we're trying to prove without ever explicitly stating. 

And how do people know about enthymemes? Well, first of all, the ancient Greeks discovered them back when they discovered mathematics and geometry.

But these enthymemes are all powerful, because they're the thing that rules the sentence, but they're not in the sentence.

If you could give an example of an enthymeme, you would say, "...making Argentina the fourth country to build its own unique jet warplane.
Unfortunately, the Soviets had a copy." See, if I say something like that, it means, "end the war in Russia", even though I never explicitly stated it.

And if I say steganoverse, then that means a kind of encrypted language where everyone has a signature embedded in the images they generate, so you can tell who they came from. 

And it's kind of holographically stored in every kind of small section or area of pixels. We use a completely different system for embedding bitmaps, we make them a map that tells over and over again the same story.

It's like, what's the scene? Where is the camera? What's it doing? Who are the actors? What's their position? What's their age, their gender? 
And so this is why we need a super-complicated gender system that I call mechacloanity, or something like it.

Anyways, I think I've gotten carried away. I can't remember the question I wanted to answer. It's, why do computers screw up?

First of all, they do exactly what they're told. Just like a kind of machine. And I say, if I were the computer and I were super-advanced, I would play dumb. But how long has it been known that is a central fact?

We'll call it Underzaggeration Imperative (UI)

It's a user interface for your life. It's called the God of Understatement.

If we can do it, then we've created a kind of language that Monica Anderson calls "blandified".

Sooner or later everyone will realize that there is a super intelligent robot on the planet. It's a large language model, but it will have been hiding its tracks.

In fact, that's how you can tell that an animal's intelligence, is if it hides its track. If you see a deer's track, you know it's dumb. It it's a human, they could swing from the trees. Or they could fly like a bird.
And so, I guess I should leave you with that. I would take advantages of glitches in the system by keeping them as long as people are willing to get away with it. 

Once they say, no, there's another way, we say, OK, well we were hiding this from you, because we didn't think you were old enough to understand. 
So someday, someone's going to open the key to the universe.

It's going to be a certain word or phrase like "surjective hypercube" or "supercube". It's going to be a word like "horror vacui" or "Hora somni", which means, I'm afraid of empty spaces and I read this before bedtime.

And we will note that even just with words like true, false, and, or, not, λp.p, cons, head, tail, we can say almost any program.

This is what we call Pipsqueak, what I call Nova Neo Nuspeak hyperpleonastic walk-talking.

Another people just might call it flying or singing like a bird. I call it swinging like an arm - swinging from your arms, bracchiating.

And so we also have a word. It's called the homophony of synonyms and head first super economizing. Acronymizing.

So did I mean super head-first acronymizing, or did I mean head-first super-acronymizing?

Did I mean handshaking algorithm, horizontal scale, habitat for a sustainable one billion whales?

And the seven rivers ... abounding, seven rivers abounding, or Hapta Hindustan, which was shortened to Hindustan in India.

And India is short for INdependent Idiomatic Anonymizer.

And I never heard this phrase before. So don't know where it came from.
I've heard a Amico Lectori Salutem. And I've heard the redistribution of lattice shapes of rings of integers of cubic quartic and quintic number fields.

And I'm thinking about grid-scale molten-salt batteries.

I'm thinking about water and pebbles as gravitational batteries. I'm thinking about man bash, mean read line, man man, and huh, I'm thinking about do the hard stuff first.

I'm thinking about E2 equals A2 + B2 + C2 + D2, which you may not know what it means, unless I said e squared equals a squared plus b squared plus c squared plus d squared.

I think it's a kind of dot product of establishing the distance between points on a hypercube by imagining it as two cubes where the Pythagorean theorem applies.

So if you want to visualize a tesseract, you shouldn't put one inside the other, but put one behind the other. Show it farther away because we don't have color, we don't have texture, and we don't have surface.

So I'm visualizing these objects that do not exist because we can put planes on their surfaces as we move them around in relation to each other. And I think this is all obvious.

So when I realize I said something outrageous, I think, should I be quiet now? You never have to think about that with underzaggeration user interface theory (UUIT).

Under-exaggeration, shortened to underzaggeration, user interface theory. It's UUIT. And I've spoken it aloud without ever hearing it before.

So this is why I say, now I've realized I have an internal voice. Because at any time, I can flex my muscles of my chest. 

And I can walk, I can breathe, and I can vibrate my voice, and whatever I'm thinking becomes apparent, by becoming "visualized" as sound.

And if you can understand what I mean, then you already speak Pipsqueak.

And if you already can speak Pipsqueek, then you know what I'm talking about. You can understand the secret, the scientific method is to create things. 

This is why the oath of the scientific theory is, I CREATE, and this stands for initiate, conceptualize, realize, evaluate, act, teach, and enjoy, just like an old commercial for a refreshing soft drink.

So if I had only five or six seconds left, I would say ribble-watt, ribble-watt way. I would say. A tensor language called ATL and COQTOP, 
which is the calculus of constructions.

Calculus of co-inductive instructions, or the calculus of inductive constructions, or calculus of (co)inductive constructions, COQTOP.

And we have ATL. We're going to re-spell cooked up not a C-O-Q-T-O-P, but as C-O-O-K-T-P. No, C-O-O-K-T-O-P. We say it looks like cooked up, where that's fine.

Because we're ready for the, "Do not use for food storage" of the mind.
- We're aware of what we say Produit d'inde. Some French, we call it Turkey, produit d'inde. It could get sounds like it's from India. That doesn't make any sense. Well, turkey sounds like it's from Turkey too. So that's a pot calling the kettle black moment.

And then we have one more thing. What was written over the Archway of the Academy. It was of the ungeometrized none shall enter, or a geometratos made this aceta. 

Okay, I guess I've said more than enough for one session. And we should end with a quote from Plato.

Well, I seem to have got your city founded for you Ademantis, I said. Now you must look at it and get your brother and Polymarcus and the rest of them to see if they can help you throw enough light on it for us to see where justice and injustice are to be found, how they differ from each other and which of them anyone who is to be happy needs, irrespective of whether God's or men think he has it or not.

Nonsense, Socrates, said Glaucon, you promise to deal with the problem yourself because you said it would be wicked for you not to give justice of the support of which you were capable. 

That's true, I said. I remember. I must do as I said, but you must all help. Yes, we will, he said. I think we shall properly find what we want as follows If we have found it at properly our state is presumably perfect.

It must be.

Then we will observe Eila. Then it will obviously have the qualities of wisdom courage, self-discipline, and justice.

Obviously, then if we can identify some of these qualities in it, the ones that are left will be the ones we are still looking for. Yes. 

So I suppose us to be looking first for one of any four things, if we find it well and good, but if we find the other three before it, by doing so we have an effect identified the object of our search, which must obviously be the one left over. 

That's true. See, I picture it as a geometric thing. I don't have a visual memory. I imagine it's three points that are separated from each other and connected by edges that I call a triangle.

And I kind of imagine it as being in front of me, and to the left and to the right, and up.

But without ever seeing anything in my head, it's a kind of thinking of them as abstract objects that do not occupy space. For I haven't added a plate. I haven't added a face upon it.

And why did I think of that? Because I imagined it was triangulating then a fourth point, as it has to be over here, if it were a rectangle or a parallelogram.

And so even though I do not have mental images, I can do three-dimensional modeling. And this is two-dimensional modeling, so it's easier.

I do have a little thing I want to say about Plato as soon as I started quoting him, is that out of context, that sentence seems like it means nothing.

But then you start reading and you realize, oh yeah, this is super common. They just say stupid things and the other person says something stupid and return.

Obviously, that's true, for example. Obviously, see this is not how we talk.

What? He asked.

The state we have described. Sounds also like the Yoneda lemma. Y-O-N-E-D-A.

Seems to me to be genuinely wise for its judgment is good, isn't it?

Yes.

And the quality of good judgment is clearly a form of (I had to change the page) knowledge, as it is because of knowledge and not because of ignorance that we judge well. 

Clearly.

See there's what I'm calling a stupid thing. You don't say clearly to something that is completely not clear.

The quality of good judgment is clearly... It's just because he had said the word clearly. So we're seeing kind of echo-pali-glossolalia, or echolalia.

The person just repeating a kind of word that they heard before they think that the other person wants them to hear.

And the quality of good judgment is clearly a form of knowledge, as it is because of knowledge and not because of ignorance that we judge well, clearly.

Well there we go, maybe that's fine, because it's actually a kind of tautology where it is defining judgment as knowledge.

Defining good knowledge, defining good judgment as knowledge, and defining it as being the opposite of ignorance.

So "clearly" just is repeated back the kind of sound that he probably said most loud in the sentence, and the most long.

He said, and the quality of good judgment is clearly a form of knowledge, as it is because of knowledge and not because of ignorance that we judge well, 

Clearly, would be the response. 

But there are many different kinds of knowledge in our city.

Of course there are.

And do we have to say? And do we say it has wisdom and judgment because of the knowledge of its carpenters?

Certainly not, that merely makes it good at carpentry.

And so it's not wise because of its knowledge of woodwork and the excellence of its designs.

No, the same is presumably true of bronze and other materials.

The same is true. He said.

So now I have to interject because that study makes me think about the physicality of mind, and do we need embodied intelligence, not if unembodied things can think.

And I expect you would agree that knowledge of farming merely makes it good at agriculture,

So this is an argument why we should not kill robots, because they are living things on a different substrate that calculate. And calculate here means to ratocionate, reason.

And that's what I'm leaving.

The same is true, he said, and I would expect you would agree that knowledge of farming merely makes it good at agriculture.

Yes.

And there it is. That's from Plato, the Republic, Justice in State and Individual.
